2021 content update (#1)
ISISDataPolicy/policy: data_policy.md

3.2 Curation of raw data and associated metadata

> 3.2.1 All raw data will be created in standardized formats, for which the means of reading the data will be made available by the Facility.

Author: This might be overkill, but was wondering if we want to be more specific about the formats being interoperable. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
3.2.1 All raw data will be created in formats with publicly available standards, for which the means of reading the data will be made available by the Facility.
```

Reviewer: Good thought, but I would argue not, because what is meant by 'publicly available' here... Is the old .raw ISIS bespoke format (historically and still in use for some instrument along size nexus) a publicly available standards - the answer to this will depend on who you ask. However, the old .raw ISIS is a standardized format, that is a standard for storing ISIS data, which I think fewer people can disagree with (similar argument can also be used for the bespoke ISIS nexus ways of storing instrument data!)

3.2.2 Metadata associated with raw data that is automatically captured by instruments will be curated either within the raw data files, within an associated on-line catalogue, or within both.

3.2.3 Raw data and metadata will be stored initially on instrument-related computers, and will be migrated or copied to archival facilities for long-term curation.

> 3.2.4 After the long-term period, ISIS does not guarantee that raw data will continue to be stored. It is the responsibility of the user to provide storage if they wish to have guaranteed access to raw data after this time. Associated metadata will be kept indefinitely, even if the raw data is deleted.

Author: Think we need to be careful about wording on this to not cause any scares, as we don't really plan to delete anything. Not sure if this is too blunt.

Reviewer: Yes I agree we need to think before we add wording to this effect. Historically ISIS has kept all raw data, to my understanding, but wonder if with IMAT imaging this may need changing. Also, if we are not planning to keep all raw data indefinitely this need to be communicated up front with the users for whom this relates, and something which may not have be considered this yet. So @WHTaylor I think this could instead become an independent issue we can follow up on, and use as a discussion point in a future meeting with others

3.4.2 Access to raw data and the associated metadata obtained from an experiment is restricted to the experimental team for an embargo period of three years after the end of the experiment. Thereafter, it will become available to the wider community under the CC-BY license that obliges users to acknowledge ISIS and cite [Digital Object Identifiers (DOI)](https://www.isis.stfc.ac.uk/Pages/Digital-Object-Identifiers-%28DOIs%29-for-ISIS-Data.aspx) that are linked to ISIS data. Any PI that wishes their data to remain ‘restricted access’ for a longer period will be required to make a special case to the Director of ISIS.  Any PI who wishes their data to be made publicly accessible before the end of the 3 year embargo period can ask ISIS to enable this.

3.5 Concerning access to facility generated reduced data and associated metadata

3.5.1 Facility generated reduced data and associated metadata will be accessible from the DAaaS platform.

3.6 Concerning access to raw data, facility generated reduced data and associated metadata

> 3.6.1 Access to embargoed data through the on-line catalogue and DAaaS platform will be restricted to those who register with STFC/ISIS as users.

Author: Split into 2 to be precise

```suggestion
3.6.1 Access to the DAaaS platform will be restricted to those who register with STFC/ISIS as users.

3.6.2 Access to embargoed data through the on-line catalogue will be restricted to those who register with STFC/ISIS as users. Data that is not under embargo will be openly accessible.
```

3.4.2 Access to raw data and the associated metadata obtained from an experiment is restricted to the experimental team for an embargo period of three years after the end of the experiment. Thereafter, it will become available to the wider community under the CC-BY license that obliges users to acknowledge ISIS and cite [Digital Object Identifiers (DOI)](https://www.isis.stfc.ac.uk/Pages/Digital-Object-Identifiers-%28DOIs%29-for-ISIS-Data.aspx) that are linked to ISIS data. Any PI that wishes their data to remain ‘restricted access’ for a longer period will be required to make a special case to the Director of ISIS.  Any PI who wishes their data to be made publicly accessible before the end of the 3 year embargo period can ask ISIS to enable this.

3.5 Concerning access to facility generated reduced data and associated metadata

3.5.1 Facility generated reduced data and associated metadata will be accessible from the DAaaS platform.

3.6 Concerning access to raw data, facility generated reduced data and associated metadata

3.6.1 Access to the DAaaS platform will be restricted to those who register with STFC/ISIS as users.

> 3.6.2 Access to embargoed data through the on-line catalogue will be restricted to those who register with STFC/ISIS as users. Data that is not under embargo will be openly accessible.

Author: ```suggestion
3.6.2 Access to embargoed data through the on-line catalogue will be restricted to experimental team memebers who register with STFC/ISIS as users. Data that is not under embargo will be openly accessible.
```
